Prologue - Departure

Chapter 1 - The Steorra

	The beach that Emilio Grey sat upon was serene. There was no stress for Emilio here. Only the sun's light warmth and the soft cushions of the folding chair weighed upon his mind and body. The spell of beach-side euphoria was broken as the distinct ring of his UICN communications bracelet pierced the silence. He slowly turned his head toward its miniature, squarish screen. 'Departure Due At 2400' he read as the text on it began to scroll. He leaned back and sighed. After a little bit, he called his daughter Sara.
	"Hey dad what's up?" Sara answered.
	"I'm heading out soon," Emilio said. "Just wanted to say bye."
	"Oh," Sara said. "Well I'm a bit busy right now, but sure. Bye dad. Love you."
	"I love you too sweetie," Emilio said. "Hopefully I'll retire soon and we can spend a whole lot more time together."
	"That..." Sara said before pausing for a moment. "That would be really nice. I'm usually pretty busy you know, but yeah, that would be nice if you were just kinda... around, you know. I mean it does get pretty lonely out here."
	Emilio smiled and was about to say something else when Sara spoke again.
	"Oh shit, gotta go. We'll message, okay?"
	"Alright," Emilio said. "See you in five months hopefully."
	"Hopefully, ha," Sara said with an awkward laugh, "Bye."
	"Bye," Emilio said.
	As the phone-line went dead, Emilio leaned back and sighed once more.
	The next twelve hours were a blur. Packing then taxi then briefing then taxi then flight. As the shuttle flew upward into space and the colors of the sky changed from blue to black, Emilio gulped down his glass of water laced with gravity gel. Just as quickly as he'd felt gravity leaving him, he felt the false gravity provided by the gravity gel interacting with the shuttle's gel attractors returning him to a sense of normalcy. It wasn't a perfect simulation of gravity, there was a constant feeling like gravity wasn't evenly distributed over one's body. This feeling was only made worse by the fact that clothing wasn't affected by the false gravity either. In some it caused motion sickness; however, Emilio was used to this after almost fifty years of military service.
	As Captain Grey stepped upon the Steorra, he felt the familiarity of military routine setting in immediately.
	"Good morning Captain," First Officer Elma James said. "Welcome aboard."
	"It's 0030," Captain Grey said. "That's hardly morning at all. Well good morning to you anyway Elma."
	"Everyone else is in the hangar," Elma said. "We're due to set out at 0800."
	Captain Grey groaned. He preferred waking up around at least 1000 at the earliest.
	"Just stay on schedule these first few weeks," Elma said. "At least until we get near the outer sectors."
	"I'll try," Captain Grey said.
	"Well," Elma said. "The crew is waiting for dismissal."
	"Alright," Captain Grey said.
	Elma led the way through the steel blue corridors of the Steorra and down a long set of stairs into the hangar. The hangar was quite large, making up about a fourth of the Steorra's size. It wasn't standard for a hangar to be so large, but it wasn't particularly unusual either. The military usually retrofitted ships with older parts and the hangar was probably what had happened to be available.
	Captain Grey set foot in the hangar and looked to where the crew was lined up on one of its painted red landing squares. All eighteen people were standing nearly 300 feet away. He spent a little over a minute walking to them at a brisk, but dignified pace. He breathed heavily for several moments as he stood before them. After only a month of vacation, he was already out of shape.
	"Set up the camera Elma," Captain Grey said.
	"Yes sir."
	Elma pulled a tablet from her pocket and fastened it to the floor with a magnetized strap. After fiddling with its kick stand and settings, she pointed toward the rest of the crew. Captain Grey walked over and kneeled in front of them while Elma jogged to stand directly behind him. After several awkward seconds of silence and stillness, there was a click and a flash that lasted an instance. Captain Grey blinked repeatedly as he walked back over to the tablet.
	"That's the picture taken," Captain Grey said. He cleared his throat as he probed his mind for what details he was supposed to inform the crew of. There were a few more seconds of total silence than he would have liked before he remembered what he'd meant to say. "I'd like you all to welcome a temporary addition to our crew. As you've all likely noticed, Ms. Samantha Perez is not in uniform. This is because she is a pre-med student that will be working with Doc Hardy and Nurse Lang for the next five months. Please welcome her aboard."
	The crew gave a dissonant and quiet clap.
	"With that," Captain Grey said. "You're all dismissed. Go get some sleep everyone."
	As the crew dispersed, Elma included, Samantha approached Captain Grey.
	"Captain," Samantha said.
	"Yes Samantha?" Captain Grey responded.
	"I just wanted to thank you so much for allowing me on board. I understand that technically you're not supposed to allow non-military staff on and all that."
	Captain Grey didn't respond for a few seconds, only sighing.
	"So I just wanted to say thank you," Samantha said.
	"Samantha," Captain Grey said. "I really don't care if you're on this ship or not. The crew doesn't care if you're on this ship. The military doesn't care if you're on this ship. No one cares except for you, Doc Hardy, Nurse Lang, and your family most likely."
	There was a brief silence before Samantha responded.
	"Well, thanks anyway I guess."
	Samantha walked off and Captain Grey stood alone, watching the crew lazily make their way back across the hangar.
	After several minutes, Captain Grey had managed to make his way to his quarters. It was just how he left it. To him, his room on the Steorra was his home. It wasn't a nice home or a large home, but it was where he'd spent the majority of the past eight or so years of his life, and so it was his home. He didn't consider the rest of the ship like a home at all. It was far too big for that. In his mind, it was the same as the sidewalks and streets of a small planet city. He had to walk so far at least.
	Captain Grey slid into bed shortly after entry into his room. He hadn't changed the sheets since last he'd left, but he rarely changed his sheets anyway. He did not drift off into sleep for many hours. His thoughts that night were preoccupied with agonizing over every minuscule social interaction he would have the next day.

•	•	•

	Lieutenant Yuki Rose put on his uniform shortly after waking. He didn't like his uniform; the horrible bright orange color that covered most of it unnerved him every time he caught a glimpse of it. As soon as the ship neared the outer sectors in a week, Captain Grey would allow him to wear his casual clothes when not on duty. He probably wasn't going to wear them on duty anyway. Even the captain wouldn't care when routine inspections weren't a thing. Yuki looked at his hair and face in the bathroom mirror and began his beauty ritual. He always spent a good five minutes making sure his hair looked good, with bangs pulled to the side and ponytail at the back. He then rinsed his face and dried it before putting a light makeup on any blemishes he perceived. Finally, he spent several minutes brushing his teeth and washing his mouth before heading out of his room.
	Yuki entered the hangar and looked around. He could see Ensign Leon Banks just exiting his ship. Yuki never minded a bit of conversation before his scouting mission, even if it was with Banks, so he made his way over. After a couple minutes of walking, he finally reached Banks ship as Banks was finishing his post-mission check-up on it.
	"What happening with you?" Yuki asked.
	"Not much," Banks said. "Just finishing up for today. How about you?"
	"Doing alright," Yuki said. "Can't wait to get scouting done with."
	"You have gate check today right?" Banks asked.
	"Yeah," Yuki said. "I swear if the battery's out it'll ruin my day."
	"Almost never is though," Banks said. "You've always just had bad luck."
	"Maybe you've just had good luck," Yuki said. "Ah well. I should head out and get it over with."
	"Good idea," Banks said. "Good luck."
	"Thanks," Yuki said.
	Yuki walked to his ship. An X3 Chickadee, covered in scratched up red and black coats of paint. It was about sixteen feet long, six feet wide, and about five feet off the ground. Its frame's primary shape was a long isosceles triangle both from above and from the side. The back half of the ship had a thin tent-like protrusion upward, the front portion of which served as a  cockpit. The latter portion of this protrusion was not made of the same glossy camglass as the cockpit was, but instead was purely metal and served as passenger space for three. With no combative capabilities, the X3 served as a scout ship. Yuki entered the cockpit and disabled the ship's magnetic landing gear. As soon as it had drifted upward from the hangar floor, he turned on the forwards thrusters and drifted into alignment with the airlock tunnel. It glided toward the tunnel and entered it. As soon as the airlock tunnel entrance door had sealed behind him and the exit door had opened, Yuki put his thrusters at maximum and rushed out into the void of space.
	As his ship drifted silently past the pink moon of the Reyes system, Yuki stared out of the cockpit's camglass in appreciation of the great, blushing body. Pink was his favorite color. He would have stopped his ship and stared at it for longer, but he just wanted to get his scouting routine out of the way. They were always boring. He wasn't allowed to veer off and maneuver his ship like it were a bird, but instead he had to drift in a straight line to conserve the ship's batteries. So Yuki soon had started watching film on his tablet as his ship drifted toward his destination.
	After five hours of flight, the ship approached the massive semi-circle of steel and silicon that was a jump gate. The concept of a jump gate was simple. If you passed between its two ends, you would find yourself at the set of universal coordinates that the had been etched into a small square on the jump gate. Yuki didn't understand how they worked, and neither did anyone else really. They were discovered by accident in a small scale laboratory experiment centuries ago and were never understood beyond their functionality since their discovery. A semi-circle of basic materials with a tiny energy source shouldn't have allowed for any form of teleportation. And yet, they had helped humanity reach across the stars. Yuki guided his ship toward the jump gate's battery. He ran a scan on it. 'JUMPGATEID592: Energy Levels Passable' the scanning console read.
	"Good," Yuki said aloud. He turned his ship around and shifted to maximum acceleration, glad that his day would not be any longer.

•	•	•

	Vara had a tight grip on the hangar bench.
	"Jumping in t-minus ten seconds," Captain Grey's voice said over the intercom. "Please brace yourselves."
	Vara kept her tight grip. She'd been in the military long enough to see people get badly injured in a routine jump because they were standing up during one; she wanted to keep herself as far away from that possibility as she could. The ship lurched backward, a mild instant of force pushed Vara forward. She counted from zero, to one, to two, and to three. Almost just after reaching three, the ship lurched forward, pushing her now slightly backward. It was rare for a jump to cause the ship to lurch much more than that, and dangerous as well. The lurching happened in direct correlation with distance jumped. If you jumped 1000 light years for example, it would still only take just over three seconds. However, the force upon the person before and after the jump would be so powerful they would die hitting a wall.
	"Jump complete," Captain Grey's voice said. "If you have been injured, please make your way to the med bay. If any repairs need to be made, please report them to Chief Engineer Sun Kim."
	Vara looked over to see Henry, a flight mech pilot, standing up and walking over.
	"You gonna help with maintenance?" Henry asked.
	"No," Vara said.
	"You know," Henry said. "I'm getting real sick of you skipping on your duties."
	"Report me then," Vara said.
	"If I could I would," Henry said. "But I bet Mohsen'll get sick of dealing with your shit eventually."
	"He respects me," Vara said. "So I doubt he will. Plus, Mohsen and I are pals."
	"Right," Henry said, walking off toward where the flight and ground mechs were fastened to the floor.
	The flight mechs were basically maneuverable turrets. Design-wise, they were big hunks of metal covered in propulsion systems. It was a rather brutish design, but it got the job done. Vara had originally piloted flight units, but she had migrated over to ground units several years back. Neither of the units ever really saw action these days, since the information wars had ended years ago. She'd only switched to ground units because they just seemed funner to her. They were like massive suits of armor really, standing twice as tall as a person and mechanized. If you moved your arm, it moved its arm in exactly the same way at exactly the same time. As well as this, since she'd been a child, she'd loved the idea of being a knight, and ground mechs were reminiscent of 14th century plate armor and occasionally used swords. There were no swords on the Steorra unfortunately, as swords  were very much for fighting wild beasts on foreign planets. She often fancied transferring to one. She knew however, that such a transfer would be ill-advised and likely result in her death, so it remained a fancy.
	Vara looked over to the mechs and saw that Henry wasn't doing maintenance, instead, he was kissing Lana next to one of the mechs. 'What an asshole' Vara thought to herself as she looked away and turned her thoughts to other things.

•	•	•

	"Chief Kim," a woman's voice said.
	The bulbous form of Chief Kim turned from its workstation.
	"Ah Klyne," Chief Kim said, glad to see that it was his subordinate and not anyone he wasn't familiar with. "What is it?"
	"I just got a report that one of the Hummingbirds has a malfunctioning gyro system," Klyne said. "It's still combat functional, but the pilots don't want to take any risks."
	"Well," Chief Kim said. "That's a pain in our ass."
	"Is it hard to fix?" Klyne asked.
	"For us it is," Chief Kim said. "We'll need to open it up and replace the primary computer."
	"Okay," Klyne said. "I'll get right on it if you could make maintenance rounds."
	"Sure," Chief Kim said, struggling to stand under his weight. "A bit of exercise shouldn't kill me. Just make sure you don't screw it up, we only have one six-two model backup computer left."
	"Got it," Klyne said, promptly walking out.
	Chief Kim approached his SWIFT-3-23, an engineering mech. It looked more like a crudely simplistic reconstruction of a human skeleton than a mech. Despite its looks, it functioned like a mech, latching onto the arms, legs, and body and supporting them as well as allowing for a bit more strength and speed than usual. The mech buckled under his weight, but it still functioned just fine. This one hadn't broken after two years, so it wasn't likely to break today. Running his lap around the ship was quite taxing even with the SWIFT. Overall, the distance he had to cover came out to a little over a mile and the SWIFT only made it go a little faster. He also had to stop running quite frequently to make sure he didn't crash into anyone when rounding corners. But after four agonizing minutes, Chief Kim had made his lap. Chief Kim knew very well that running quickly past everything that might need maintenance was a terrible way to see if something needed maintenance. Yet the SWIFT was designed to log distance and not time spent for whatever reason, so he just got his lap done as quick as he could every time. Besides, if there was a problem, someone always noticed rather quickly.
	Chief Kim got out of the SWIFT and walked back into the engineering bay. He saw that Junior Engineer Sherman Kelly was sitting on a bench reading. Sherman was a particularly strange case, being eighty-three years old and a terrible engineer, so he just usually sat around and didn't do anything. Sherman had been on the Steorra for as long as anyone could remember. When anyone asked him how long he'd been an engineer on the ship, he would look to the ground and respond, "Forty." The problem had become that, as long as anyone aboard the Steorra could remember, or more precisely, for the last ten years, he'd responded with the number forty. As well as this, the Steorra had been service for a bit less than twenty-three years up to this point. No one actually knew Sherman well enough to ask him to elaborate on this, and those that did know him well didn't really care. He was sane otherwise, and that was really all the mattered.
	"How are you doing today Sherman?" Chief Kim.
	"Good," Sherman said.
	"That's good," Chief Kim said.
	And that was the extent to which their conversations usually went. Chief Kim sat down at his workstation and went back to work tinkering on a pierce rifle he'd borrowed from security. This was Chief Kim's hobby, messing with gun mechanics and then testing them out. A bullet from a pierce rifle was able to pierce through a foot of steel, so he had to walk all the way to the firing range in the security offices so that a bullet didn't go through a wall and break something every time he wanted to test something new out. This was terrible primarly because he hated walking. His health was so fargone that he hardly considered it anymore. At age fifty-two and 360 pounds, even Chief Kim was somewhat surprised he hadn't died of any of the five heart attacks he'd suffered over the past decade.

•	•	•

	"Ron!" Security Chief Angus Khan shouted as he stomped out of his office, his weight only adding to the noise of his footsteps. Ensign Ron Vio was reading a book just outside the office, as he usually did.
	"Yes sir," Ron said, his curly mess of hair somewhat covering his face as he looked at Khan.
	"I asked you to file these papers an hour ago!" Khan yelled, a rubber banded stack of papers under his arm. "Why the fuck haven't you filed them!?"
	"Oh sorry sir," Ron said, fumbling to put his book down. "Right on it sir."
	"All you did was place them in the filing cabinet like this!" Khan shouted, pointing at the stack of papers that was now in his other hand. "You think I wouldn't notice!?"
	"Oh uh," Ron paused. "I uh, meant to file them but I put them there and forgot sir." 	"Goddammit I know you're lying out your ass!" Khan yelled as he threw the papers at Ron like a pigskin. Ron tried to catch them, but as they reached his hands the rubber band snapped and the papers flew all over the room. "You're cleaning that up Ensign!" Khan said as he returned to sit in his office.
	Khan couldn't stand Ron. He always ended up with a terrible subordinate and had to do everything himself. He didn't need one, that he had proven time and time again, but it was UICN regulation that a ship the size of the Steorra have at least two security staff. Such regulations enraged him to no end and served only to undermine him. He was already having a bad day with Ron being a bit worse than usual, and now, the intercom on his desk was ringing. He picked it up as quick as he could.
	"What?" he asked in the usual, terse tone he had when he thought he might be speaking to someone higher than him.
	"Khan," a female voice said on the other end. It sounded like it could be Admiral Yap, or First Officer Elma maybe. Everyone sounded the same over the intercom on his end. "Captain Grey says that he needs your report within the next hour."
	"Ah," Khan said. "Right, I'll get to that."
	The person on the other end hung up and Khan set to work on his weekly security report.
	"The files are done sir," Ron said as he walked into Khan's office twenty minutes later.
	"Huh," he said, looking up from his nearly finished report write-up. "Oh all filed. Good. You're done for today."
	"Really?" Ron remarked, seeming a bit surprised.
	"Yes," Khan said, a bit of rage beginning to well. "You are done. Go away."
	"Oh," Ron said, "Uh, thanks. Bye."
	As Ron walked out Khan muttered to himself incomprehensible words of rage even he himself could not make out.

•	•	•

	A month after boarding, Captain Grey sat in the captain's chair on the bridge as he watched the clock approach 2000. The first officer, navigator, and comms officer were all silent. Elma was reading. Lieutenant Alexis Crane was asleep. Lieutenant Avery Greene was staring out into space. The seat of a weapons officer was empty, as was always the case outside times of war. If worst came to worst, the first officer could always manage the position anyway. The clock hit 2000.
	"Alright," Elma said, standing from her chair. "I'm off to bed."
	"Same," Avery said.
	"You're on night duty Crane?" Captain Grey asked.
	"Yeah," Crane said, roused from her sleep.
	"Well we're all set then. Good night everyone," Captain Grey said as he stood.
	"Good night Captain," the bridge crew said in near unison.
	With that, Captain Grey walked off the bridge. Captain Grey went to bed that night fretting over every thing he'd said and done that day, but drifted into sleep quickly.

Chapter 2 - Jump Eight
	"Everything ready?" Captain Grey asked.
	"Yes," Crane said. 
	"Avery," Captain Grey said. "You may log the jump."
	Avery flipped several controls and began to speak. "Thirty-one ninety-four, August tenth, jump- Whoops."
	"Whoops what?" Captain Grey asked.
	"Forgot to hit the record button," Avery said. "Okay starting over." She flipped the record button, looked down to her pre-written transcript, and began to speak again, now much faster. "Three one nine four, eight ten, jump eight, one two zero zero, commencing in t-minus seven four seconds."
	"Sounds good," Captain Grey said. "Remember to save it this time."
	"Got it," Avery said.
	Captain Grey picked up the intercom and spoke. "Good day everyone. We will be jumping in approximately one minute or in t-minus... fifty-three seconds. Please hold onto something to prevent injury." He put down the intercom, waited forty seconds, then picked it up again. "Jumping in t-minus ten seconds. Please brace yourselves." He put down the intercom, sat down, and held onto his chair tightly.
	After several seconds, nothing had happened. Crane must have miscalculated when they would reach it. He held on tight still as seconds passed. Seconds neared a minute.
	"Huh," Crane said. "Maybe the gate ran out of battery? We're right in the-"
	Crane's words seemed to trail off as Captain Grey found himself slamming against the back of his chair. He heard shouts of surprise, cursing, yells of pain. He looked around and tried to comprehend what was happening. He looked out the window. The stars were gone; they were in mid-jump. Before he could get his feet planted again, he was flung forward and landed face first on the floor. A pain in his neck and chest sprung up as he tried to breathe in. He tried to stand an look around, but his vision was becoming red as blood poured down from his forehead and his hands were slipping on some liquid on the ground. He wiped the blood away from his eyes and stumbled toward his chair.
	Captain Grey sat down and looked around the bridge as his mind began to interpret all the noise around him between wiping the blood of his forehead. Yelling, cursing, screaming, and crying accompanied the forms of three crew members splayed all about the bridge. The only person that was still in their chair was Crane. She stared wide-eyed at the navigation console in front of her as tears streamed down her face.
	"Crane," Captain Grey said. "What happened?"
	"We jumped," Crane said. "We jumped halfway across known space. And now, we're in the middle of nowhere. We're a hundred and thirty-one years away from the nearest system Captain."
	"How are..." Captain Grey began, but trailed off as he began to comprehend what Crane had just said. "Oh no."
	"And on top of that," Crane said. "It looked like something in the oxygen converter broke and it's operating at not even a tenth capacity. So we only have a bit over five hours to live."
	Captain Grey leaned back in his chair and stopped caring about the blood flowing down his face. Even as it covered his nose and mouth, making it hard to breathe, he sat still and let it run down onto his clothes. He felt as someone wiped the blood from his face.
	"Captain you've gotta snap out of it," Elma said. Captain Grey quickly became fixated on the puncture wound in Elma's cheek.
	"Elma are you okay?" Captain Grey asked.
	"I'm asking if you're okay Captain!" Elma shouted.
	"You are?" Captain Grey asked.
	His vision began to darken, this time, not because of the blood. His stomach began to hurt and it became harder to breathe. Soon, he fell unconscious.

•	•	•

	"Okay," Doc Hardy said as he walked across the med bay and looked out into the hall, a half-empty bottle of whiskey in hand. "Ah good. Patients."
	He heard running and saw shortly after Nurse Lang running around the corner.
	 "Did you hear the announcement?" Nurse Lang said.
	"I heard it," Doc Hardy said, stumbling a bit as he tried to prop himself up on a wall. "Bad jump. Probably injuries."
	"Then why the fuck aren't you going and getting people then!" Nurse Lang shouted.
	"Because," Doc Hardy slurred. "I've gotta be here during emergency. It's ship protocol."
	"Holy shit," Nurse Lang said, staring at Doc Hardy. "Holy shit."
	"Now hurry," Doc Hardy said as he waltzed toward the overturned medicine cabinet and began to sort through the bottles on the floor to look for painkillers. "Go check on everyone. Make sure we're all okay."
	"Holy shit," Nurse Lang said as he began to run toward the hangar.
	Doc Hardy picked up a bottle and read, 'Painkiller Grade 5 Tablets'.
	"Good," he said. "No liquid so tablets will do."
	"Doc Hardy!" he heard someone shout. He turned to see Avery and Crane carrying Captain Grey with some clothes wrapped around his head. "He hit his head real bad," Avery said.
	"No I'm fine," Captain Grey said. "I'm all better now, just a bit woozy."
	"He says he's fine," Doc Hardy said with a shrug.
	"He's not fine!" Crane said.
	"Well put him over there then," Doc Hardy said, pointing to a cot. "I'll make sure he's okay or whatever you want."
	"Oh my god," Crane said. "You're fucking drunk aren't you."
	"Look," Doc Hardy said. "How was I supposed to know that everything terrible would happen during my Sunday drink. Well anyway, go find more crew. I think Lang went of to the hangar so Avery you go to engineering. Crane you can go back to the bridge as I'm guessing it was a jump that caused that and I'm guessing it's only Elma running things at the moment."
	"Jesus christ," Crane said as she ran out the room and back toward the bridge.
	Doc Hardy looked to see if Avery had gone yet but heard a yelp from just outside. He walked out into the hall and saw Samantha approaching with Avery having run past.
	"Oh Samantha!" Doc Hardy said. "Perfect timing I need your help."
	"Doc," Samantha said as she limped toward him. "My foot's broken."
	"Nah," Doc Hardy said looking down to her bare feet. One of them was bloody with what looked like bone sticking out of it. "Oh wait, it is broken. Well look at that. Just go sit over there."
	Doc Hardy pointed to the cot where Captain Grey was.
	"Captain Grey, that's right," Doc Hardy said as he walked over to him. "Took a real spill huh?"
	"Just a minor concussion I think," Captain Grey said. "I should be fine."
	"I'll be the judge of that," Doc Hardy said as he removed the clothing from Captain Grey's head.
	He found himself looking at a long, deep slice along Captain Grey's forehead. It had somewhat clotted by now.
	"You should be fine!" Doc Hardy said. "Here just take one of these and go back to your duties."
	"Alright sounds good," Captain Grey said as he took one of the painkillers for Doc Hardy. "Oh, got some water?"
	"Here," Doc Hardy said, handing Captain Grey his whiskey. "This'll do."
	"Thanks," Captain Grey said before he drank down the pill and handed back the bottle.
	"What did you just give him?!" Doc Hardy heard Nurse Lang shout as Captain Grey walked off.
	"Just a painkiller," Doc Hardy said, looking to see Nurse Lang walking in. "Don't worry, it mixes with alcohol fine. Oh. Who's that on your shoulder."
	"It's Mohsen," Nurse Lang said. "He took a tumble and fell unconscious apparently."
	"Okay," Doc Hardy said. "Just put him over on that... Oh, Samantha, that's right."

•	•	•

	"All available engineering staff please make your way to the bridge as soon as possible," Elma said into the intercom.
	"I'm already here," Chief Kim said, running into the room in his SWIFT.
	"Okay good," Elma said. "We've got a problem."
	"Just one?" Chief Kim asked.
	"I mean a bunch really," Elma said. "But one big one. Are Sherman and Klyne on their way?"
	"No," Chief Kim said. "Sherman threw out his back and Klyne is working running systems analysis."
	"Well," Elma said. "We're running out of oxygen fast. The oxygen converter isn't running properly and we'll all be dead in a bit more than five hours at this rate."
	"Oh shit," Chief Kim said. "That's... that's not really fixable in five hours."
	"Oh," Elma said. "That's not great then."
	"So we're all dead," Chief Kim said. "How... how odd."
	"Yeah," Elma said. "Wait, no. There has to be a way to deal with this."
	"Well," Chief Kim said. "Crane said we're in the middle of nowhere. How far from any inhabited solar system is that?"
	"A hundred and thirty-two years travel," Elma said.
	"Oh," Chief Kim said.
	"Elma," Captain Grey's voice said.
	"Oh my god Captain," Elma said, turning to see Captain Grey standing in front of her with a red strip of blood across his forehead. "Are you okay?"
	"I'm fine now," Captain Grey said. "What's the situation?"
	"We're fucked," Chief Kim said. "Oxygen runs out in five hours and we're over a hundred years from the nearest system."
	"That's right," Captain Grey said. "But it's still producing some oxygen right?"
	"CAPTAIN GREY!" came a booming voice from the bridge entry.
	Elma looked to see Khan standing in the doorway with a pierce rifle in his hands.
	"What in the HELL is happening right now!" Khan demanded as he approached.
	"We just jumped into uninhabited space," Elma said, putting herself in-between Captain Grey and Khan.
	"Ah!" Khan said, relaxing and letting his pierce rifle hang at his side. "I see! I  was worried there had been some kind of mutiny!"
	"How did you?...." Elma started to say, but dropped it and turned back to Captain Grey. "Yeah it's producing enough for three people basically."
	"Well then," Captain Grey said. "Couldn't we just stick everyone in cryo-sleep and have Chief Kim here and his staff fix the oxygen converter?"
	"We could," Chief Kim said. "But we would have to make some sacrifices for sure. Plus, there's a chance we can't fix it at all. What happens then?"
	"For every problem," Captain Grey said. "There's probably a solution. We just need to think and not accept our fate."
	"I'll make the proper announcements and message everyone in the meantime," Elma said.

•	•	•

	Vara stared at Mohsen. His eyes were closed and his breaths were slow. According to Doc Hardy, he would likely recover fine, he just needed sleep for now. Vara didn't really like Mohsen at all, but had known him for a little over a year now, so it was distressing to her that he wasn't well. It wasn't just that, however; she felt as though his injury was her fault. Mohsen had been walking around like an idiot before jump, and she hadn't said anything. She just scoffed at him in her mind as she clutched the bench she sat upon. She'd had a whole minute to tell him to sit down, but she hadn't done any such thing. She felt guilty, but it was a familiar guilt, and she knew that this was a freak accident. Plus, he was fine, thank god. Although, that didn't technically matter since they were all about to die. She felt like she needed to be making the most of these moments as a result of her impending death, but instead, she was just doing what she would on any given day excepting Mohsen's injury. She was just waiting for him to wake up, like any good friend would do.
	Vara heard someone enter the med bay from the hall. She turned and looked to see Henry approaching. He walked up and stared at Mohsen with an empty expression.
	"Is he gonna live?" Henry asked.
	"Yeah," Vara said.
	"Bummer," Henry said. "Probably better he didn't wake up to this hell."
	With those words, Henry walked away. Vara didn't say anything for a moment. She wanted to punch Henry. Instead, tears welled in her eyes and she was crying within seconds. She cried for almost a minute until she felt arms around her. She looked to see who was hugging her, and saw the face of Doc Hardy.
	"I get that Vara," he said, the smell of booze piercing Vara's mucus clogged nostrils. "I get that."
	"Thanks Doc," Vara said through her tears. "Even if you are drunk I can tell you mean it."
	Doc Hardy nodded and hugged Vara for a while longer.
	"You think we're gonna get through this Vara?" Doc Hardy asked.
	"I don't know," Vara said. "I'm kinda trying not to think about it."
	"Well I think we'll get through this," Doc Hardy said. "Captain Grey is a great man, you know that? He's gotten crews through many a bad time."
	"I hope he can," Vara said, her tears stopping. "I really hope he can."
	Doc Hardy let go of Vara and walked toward Mohsen. He looked at him for a few moments before reaching a hand out and placing it on his neck. He lifted the hand and picked up his bottle of whiskey, tilting it upward and downing what remained of it.
	"Vara," he said as he sat down on the floor. "I'm sorry. I'm so sorry."
	Vara reached out to feel Mohsen's neck before breaking into a fit of tears once more.

•	•	•

	Yuki lay in bed and stared at the ceiling. He'd bumped his head during the jump, but his pillow and comforter had cushioned the blow. He was still aware of the situation, he'd heard the announcements, but he was almost in disbelief. He'd been meant for great things. Yet now, he would probably die before he could do any of those things. Yuki didn't want to believe that he was soon to die, but it seemed that such a thing was the case. On the outside, he was expressionless, but on the inside, his mind was racing, trying to think of a possible way that he could survive this situation. Thoughts hopeful and desperate both crossed his mind. Yuki couldn't keep himself from thinking about betraying the crew somehow and ensuring his own survival. However, he knew that he could never bring himself to do such a thing. While he didn't much like anyone aboard the Steorra, he would never stoop so low as to betray so many people. To so greatly wrong one or two people every here and there was no issue by his count; but, to so totally betray everyone aboard the Steorra, that would be monstrous. So Yuki continued to lay in bed, staring at the ceiling, and thinking through every possible way out of this situation.

•	•	•

	"Captain," Chief Kim said. "There's no way around it the way I see it. We have to put everyone in cryo-sleep and either me or Lu Klyne will need to fix the converter during that time."
	"You're sure," Captain Grey said. "You're absolutely sure?"
	"There is no other way," Chief Kim said. "There's a decent chance they only have to spend a year fixing it as well. Though there's also a chance we all wake up even worse than where we left off with one less engineer. The other option is we hope that we're picked up within a few hours of waking, but that option is probably riskier."
	"What kind of chances of death can there possibly be fixing one goddamn machine?" Khan asked.
	"Well," Chief Kim said. "It's a very specifically manufactured machine. The slightest mistake and there's an almost guaranteed chance it either explodes or breaks permanently."
	"Do you trust yourself to fix it Chief Kim?" Captain Grey asked.
	"I'd trust Klyne more, but it's her choice if she-" Chief Kim said before being cut of by Captain Grey.
	"I don't care," Captain Grey said. "She's fixing it."
	"Captain!" Elma said.
	"Elma," Captain Grey said. "There are more lives on the line here than one. Higher chances for most are better than the lower chances for all."
	"Captain it just doesn't work like that!" Elma shouted.
	"A bird in the hand is better than two in the bush," Captain Grey said.
	"Elma," Chief Kim said. "I may not agree with the captain, but I must respect his choice. It is as valid a course of action as what you would have him do.
	Elma sighed, but seemed to calm down.
	"I'll call her here then," Elma said.

•	•	•

	Lu walked onto the bridge and moved up to Chief Kim.
	"What am I needed for?" Lu asked.
	"Captain," Chief Kim said, motioning to Captain Grey.
	"Lu," Captain Grey said. "I don't want to be the one to tell you this, but you're going to need to save the entire crew. We're going to put everyone in cryo and you're going to need to fix the oxygen converter in the meanwhile. This might take years, but it needs to be done, do you understand?"
	Lu nodded. "The ship will be in low power mode I assume?" Lu asked.
	"Yes," Captain Grey said.
	"Okay," Lu said. "I'll do it."
	"Good," Captain Grey said. "Let's start getting everyone into cryo then."
	Chief Kim began to brief Lu as the captain and Elma made preparations for cryo-sleep. Lu couldn't help but be excited the entire time. She alone would be the only one saving the crew. It was stressful for sure, but it meant that she was important, and that excited her.

•	•	•

	Within the hour, everything was ready. The ship had been set for full speed toward Ginger, the closest solar system. The ship's heating, lights, intercom, navigation systems, near everything, had been turned off. The only things still using the ship's power were the broken oxygen converter and the false gravity. Next to them were a pair of battery powered heaters. One to keep the hallway near cryo warm so that everyone sleeping didn't freeze to death. The other was for Lu to carry with her while she worked on the converter so that she didn't freeze to death. Soon, they would close the blast doors at each end of this hall segment to keep the heat in and Lu would begin her new life fixing the converter. Everyone but Lu and Captain Grey were in cryo now.
	"Well Lu," Captain Grey said as he climbed into one of the cryo-sleep pods. "I really don't know what else to say."
	"Don't worry about it," Lu said.
	Captain Grey looked away for a few moments as Lu connected the pod's various tubes to the iv catheter's Doc Hardy had earlier prepared.
	"Good luck, and goodbye," Captain Grey said. "And thank you."
	"I won't let you down Captain," Lu said before closing the pod door.
	Captain Grey quickly began to feel tired. His thoughts were a muddled combination of irrational fear and wild speculation before they dissipated and dreamless sleep overtook him.